Production releases policy (#56)
bratislava/bratislava.github.io: pages/deployment-and-infrastructure/deployment-and-releases.md

# Deployment & Releases

## Production releases

> Most of our projects are set up to be dockerized and deployed into our Kubernetes infrastructure. This can be done semi-manually using out [bratiska-cli](https://github.com/bratislava/bratiska-cli) tool, or can be setup using github pipelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of our projects are set up to be [dockerized](https://www.docker.com/) and deployed into our Kubernetes infrastructure. This can be done semi-manually using [bratiska-cli](https://github.com/bratislava/bratiska-cli) tool, but primarily **should be done** by automatic GitHub pipelines. 
```

### Frontend / Backend apps

This assumes Github Actions CI/CD pipeline is in place - every project running in production should have those by now. If this is not the case, one should be setup. Afterwards:

#### Do's and Don'ts

>  * ✅ every production deployment should be created using a github "release"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ✅ every production deployment should be created using a [GitHub Release](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository)
```

 * ✅ format of the tag created with release is **prod-YY.MMDD.HHMM** i.e. when releasing on May 10, 2024 at 11:00, the tag would be **prod-24.0510.1100** - inspired by https://calver.org/ and https://samver.org/
 * ✅ autogenerate release notes. Feel free to add anything relevant on top of those

>  * ✅ release to dev* using the same strategy but marking it as pre-release (feel free to release to dev simply by creating a tag)

Reviewer: Wouldn't make more sense mark as pre-release stuff that goes to staging?

Author: we're not making manual releases to staging - staging releases are done *only* automatically from new commits in master (I can add this in to clarify)

Author: Fair, let's drop the dev releases from releases and keep doing dev through tags only

 * ❌ release to prod from your local machine

>  * ❌ release to prod by creating a tag

Reviewer 2: In other pages in our docs, that use this dos and donts bullets, we write them always as sentences - big starting letter and usually dot at the end. You mix sentences and bullet point somehow here. 
Also we do not use X-icon as "replacement" for a verb, but just as a "visual decorator", so the last bullet would be written like this:
* ❌ Don't release to prod by creating a tag.

Examples:
https://bratislava.github.io/frontend/components
https://bratislava.github.io/strapi/best-practices

### Libraries

Github Actions CI/CD pipeline must be in place

#### Do's and Don'ts

 * ✅ every production deployment should be created using a github "release"

>  * ✅ follow format of the tag created with release is prod-(semver) - follow [semver](https://semver.org) strictly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * ✅ follow format of the tag created with release is **prod-(semver)** - follow [semver](https://semver.org) strictly
```

Make it bold, same as bullet point in previous section.

But, are we going to do it with `-` (dash), or without? When I look here https://github.com/bratislava/bratislava.sk it uses `prod1.0.0`. This https://github.com/bratislava/konto.bratislava.sk/releases?page=1 is suddenly using `-`. And some of our projects are using `v1.0.0`. 

So which it will be *from now on?*
 1. `<env><version>` , e.g., `prod1.10.100`
 2. `<env>-<version>` , e.g., `prod-1.10.100`
 3. `v<version>` , e.g., `v1.10.100`

Reviewer 2: I was instructed to use `prod1.x.x` without `-` by @skifahrer. (But in general, I would prefer to use `v1.x.x`, but that is out of this discussion, because that would need a change in `bratiska-cli`)

Author: it needs to start with prod. We must settle on one and not the other :) (this can be hard, remember what happened to Czechoslovakia!)

Originally I've used the version with - because I found it more legible. But I'll update myself, and if noone has strong arguments for other let's do it without the dash, so just `prod1.0.0` - I find it a simpler rule to enforce, just envX.Y.Z without any extraneous characters.

Reviewer: I would also actually prefer `vX.X.X` as production ready release, but that is out-of-scope and it's not a hill I'm willing to die on 😄. So, I'm good with `<env>X.X.X`, if we keep it consistent. 

Only question I have is what with repositories that are using `env-X.X.X` do we just switch to `envX.X.X` from now one, or we keep it as is?

Author: Yes, I intend to switch, wherever the format does not match I'd like to "rerelease" the latest version to get it on the righ way with tags from now on.

 * ✅ autogenerate release notes. Feel free to add anything relevant on top of those
 * ❌ release to prod from your local machine
 * ❌ release to prod by creating a tag

### Native

TODO - if there's a standard approach we use on multiple native apps, please document here

## Manual deployment using bratiska-cli

<Callout emoji="⚠️" type="warning">
  In general don't do this - this is either for CI setup or a fallback for emergencies.
</Callout>

You can find detailed manual & requirements in the [bratiska-cli README](https://github.com/bratislava/bratiska-cli#readme). TLDR:

1. make sure you are signed into docker harbor

> 2. make sure your are signed into the correct kbs cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. make sure your are signed into the correct Kubernetes cluster
```

3. run `bratiska-cli deploy --<env>` where `<env>` is one of `dev`, `staging`, `prod`

## Harbor Policies

As we have a somewhat limited space in our Harbor instance, all repositories are subjected to retention policy.  
Currently, every project is entitled to 30 images altogether, split across different tags: 

* 5 *latest* images with `prod*` tag
* 5 *latest* images with `stag*` tag
* 10 *latest* images with `dev*` tag
* 10 *latest* images with **some** tag
* Images without **any** tags will be removed

> The policy is ran once a day at midnight, so during the day you might push more then specified limits. Also, please note that `bratiska-cli` will automatically add `dev-latest`, `stage-latest` or `prod-latest` tags, so be careful when running production or staging pushes not to remove currently deployed production images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy is ran once a day at midnight, so during the day you might push more then specified limits. Also, please note that `bratiska-cli` will automatically add `dev-*`, `stage-*` or `prod-*` tags, so be careful when running production or staging pushes not to accidentally remove images currently deployed in production.
```

> The policy is ran once a day at midnight, so during the day you might push more then specified limits. Also, please note that `bratiska-cli` will automatically add `dev-latest`, `stage-latest` or `prod-latest` tags, so be careful when running production or staging pushes not to remove currently deployed production images.

Reviewer 2: Suddenly, there is `stage` instead of `staging`
